> Note: I'll be using terms a "key" of, that has or with a "value" of some kind. This is because i'm referring to the "key":"value" pairs when defining or transforming variables, functions, etc. to *TypeScript Types*, which is the "value" of whatever you set its "key" to. for exapmle 

| *JavaScript Expression* |
| --- |
```Ruby 
var name;
name = "Tech Savvy";
console.log(name)       #// logs Tech Savvy
```

| *TypeScrpt Expression* |
| --- |
```Ruby 
let name: string;
name = "Tech Savvy";
console.log(name)       #// logs Tech Savvy
```
> As you can see our *TypeScrpt Expression* has a "key" variable of name and a "value" of string. Why? well thats exacly what we're going to learn in this section. Enjoy.

# TypeScript Basics

> Access your project .ts file

Lets start by defining a ```var``` of ```myString```. Done, now on a new line, lets set ```myString``` to ```"Hello World" ```. 
There, now we can console log myString.

```Ruby

let myString;

myString = "Hello World";

console.log(myString)       #// logs Hello World

```

Now, although we're using vanilla JavaScript, remember that all valid JavaScript code is valid TypeScript code, so even this works in TypeScript.

Lets be serious, were not using TypeScript just to still write plain old vanilla JavaScript, lets put our TypeScript abilities to use by turning our JavaScript variable to a "key" variable of ```myString``` with "value" of ```String```.

```Ruby 
let myString: string;       #// let key: Value;
```

We have set the varible of myString to a string, at first, this allows more strict, debugable, clean code.

Lets assign ```myString``` equal to the value of ```1``` 

```Ruby 
let myString: string;       #// let key: Value;

myString = 1;       #// error Type '1' is not assignable to type 'string';         
```


This is not valid TypeScript Syntax, although if you're using tsc to compile this.

It'll still work.

*Necessarily* this is still valid JavaScript code. 

TypeScript emedutly notify you with error of this mistake, first in terminal in witch TypeScript is compiling, and secondly it'll place a red line under the code error, this will aviod future bugs and more readible code.
```ruby
error Type '1' is not assignable to type
```

Now if we replace the "key" myString, with a "value" of number rather then string. You'll see that it worked.

Why, because we've tode TypeScript that this "key" varible will hold a "value" of number, and although the "key" is named myString, it holds a "value" of a number.
```Ruby 
let myString: Number;       #// string is now number;

myString = 1;       #// myString is 1      
```
