> Note: I'll be using terms a "key" of, that has or with a "value" of some kind. This is because i'm referring to the "key":"value" pairs when defining or transforming variables, functions, etc. to *TypeScript Types*, which is the "value" of whatever you set its "key" to. for exapmle 


| *JavaScript Expression* |
| --- |
```Ruby 
var name;
name = "Tech Savvy";
console.log(name)       #// logs Tech Savvy
```

| *TypeScrpt Expression* |
| --- |
```Ruby 
let name: string;
name = "Tech Savvy";
console.log(name)       #// logs Tech Savvy
```
> As you can see our *TypeScrpt Expression* has a "key" variable of name and a "value" of string. Why? well thats exacly what we're going to learn in this section. Enjoy.

# TypeScript Value Types

> Access your project .ts file


Here are the Types we use in TypeScript:


| TypeScript Types | Description |
| :--------------: | :---------- |
| `String` | A string can be any text inside double or single quotes |
| `Number` | The original examples are the natural numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and so forth |
| `Boolean` | True or False values
| `Array` | special type of data type which can store multiple values of different data types|


On a more advance or not so common level we have: 

| TypeScript Types | Description |
| :--------------: | :---------- |
| `Any` | Can be any of TypeScript Types |
| `Void` | No TypeScript Types returned |
| `Null` | Nothing or Undefined |
| `Tuple` | A array with a fixed number of elements |
| `enum` | Emumerated values  |
| `Generics` | Little advance best described is best for reusable code|


By default JavaScript is a untyped language meaning we dont have to specify varibles or function types as in TypeScript Types.

* It is completely optional

* Helps us find and prevent bugs and stop future issues from happing

* Makes our code much more readable and descriptive

High level languages such as Java, even C requires you to specify your types, yet doing so has lots of advantages.

Although Static typing is optional when working with TypeScript, doing so makes our application more predictible and easier to debug, when things go wrong.

Although if you do assign a TypeScript Types to a varible, lets say ```example: string```, then later assign ```example = 1```, you'll get a error. Why, because obviouly be emaple will hold a string, and for you to place a number in it is incorrect. We now cought a quick bug.

Lets start by defining a ```var``` of ```myString```. Done, now on a new line, lets set ```myString``` to ```"Hello World" ```. 
There, now we can console log myString.

```Ruby

let myString;

myString = "Hello World";

console.log(myString)       #// logs Hello World

```

Now, although we're using vanilla JavaScript, remember that all valid JavaScript code is valid TypeScript code, so even this works in TypeScript.

Lets be serious, were not using TypeScript just to still write plain old vanilla JavaScript, lets put our TypeScript abilities to use by turning our JavaScript variable to a "key" variable of ```myString``` with "value" of ```String```.

```Ruby 
let myString: string;       #// let key: Value;
```

We have set the varible of myString to a string, at first, this allows more strict, debugable, clean code.

Lets assign ```myString``` equal to the value of ```1``` 

```Ruby 
let myString: string;       #// let key: Value;

myString = 1;       #// error Type '1' is not assignable to type 'string';         
```


This is not valid TypeScript Syntax, although if you're using tsc to compile this.

It'll still work.

*Necessarily* this is still valid JavaScript code. 

TypeScript emedutly notify you with error of this mistake, first in terminal in witch TypeScript is compiling, and secondly it'll place a red line under the code error, this will aviod future bugs and more readible code.
```ruby
error Type '1' is not assignable to type
```

Now if we replace the "key" myString, with a "value" of number rather then string. You'll see that it worked.

Why, because we've tode TypeScript that this "key" variable will hold a "value" of number, and although the "key" is named myString, it holds a "value" of a number.
```Ruby 
let myString: Number;       #// string is now number;

myString = 1;       #// myString is 1      
```

> Note: If not using VSC most likely you'll have to install a extention allowing this TypeScript error to show in editor other wise TypeScript will only show error in terminal.

Clear code editor, lets go over another example.

Here we create three variables.

* Define a ```let``` variable with a "key" of ```myString``` hold a "Value Type" of ```string```.

* Define a ```let``` variable with a "key" of ```myNumber``` hold a "Value Type" of ```number```.


* Define a ```let``` variable with a "key" of ```myboolean``` hold a "Value Type" of ```boolean```.

Ok, now that we defined the variables *Value Type*, lets assign these variables to a value.

* assign ```myString``` to equal ```"Hello World"```

* assign ```myNumber``` to equal ```22```

* assign ```myboolean``` to equal ```true```


Yes, i'm pretty sure you see where we're going with this.
Lets experiment just a little, but first log ```myboolean``` variable to the console.
```Ruby

let myString: string;       #// Variable type is string
let myNumber: number;       #// Variable type is number
let myBoolean: boolean;     #// Variable type is boolean

myString = "Hello World";   #// Variable has string value
myNumber = 22;              #// Variable has number value
myBoolean = true;           #// Variable has boolean value

console.log(myBoolean)      #// logs true which is a boolean type

```


Now what if I wrap ```myBoolean``` value of ```true``` with ```" "```(or single qoutes).

You'll get a error obviously,
```ruby
Type "true" is not assignable to type boolean
```

You just turned the value of ```true```, a boolean type to a string. If you wanted this variable to take a sting, go back and reassign the *Value Type* to string and not boolean, or even better assign the ```any``` *Value Type*, so that now we can use any *Value Type* as the value.

Lets set ```myBoolean``` value to, not just false, but a array that holds ```true```, ```false```, ```Tech Savvy```, 22;

Although in most cases we really wouldn't make a array like this, yet depends, I guess, all that matters right now is that it works perfectly fine. 

```Ruby

let myString: string;       #// Variable type is string
let myNumber: number;       #// Variable type is number
let myBoolean: any;     #// Variable type is boolean

myString = "Hello World";   #// Variable has string value
myNumber = 22;              #// Variable has number value
myBoolean = [
    true, 
    false, 
    "Tech Savvy", 
    22
    ];                      #// Variable has any value


console.log(myBoolean)      #// logs true which is a boolean type

```

Although there is better way going about things.

Change ```myBoolean``` *Value Type* back to true.

> Note: that the number *Value Type* can take values of additions, subtraction, dividion, hexadecimal such as 00x123d, etc. all boils down to the *Value Type* of number, as with the string *Value Type* can take concatenated string values.

> Bonus Note: A strings *Value Type* can even take function return as a string. lets add ```.slice()``` that takes a peramater of ```0, 3```.
```Ruby
let myString: string;       #// Variable type is string    

myString = "Hello World".slice(0, 3);   #// returns letters 0 - 3

console.log(myString)       #// logs Hel   
```


## Array *Value Type*

So theres actually two ways to define a array *Value Type*.

first....

Define a ```let``` variable as ```myArr``` and assign it to a *Value Type* ```string``` and set array ```[]``` on the end of it.

Now we can set ```myArr``` "value" equal to a array of each weekend day, then log it to the console.

Every thing will work long as there isn't another *Value Type* interferring with our string array, like inserting the *Value Type* number as 1 into our string.

I'm sure you know by now that''ll be a error.

```Ruby
let myArr = string[];         #// Variable type is string array

myArr = ["saterday", "sunday"];      #// Weekend inside a array

console.log(myArr);           #// logs ["saterday", "sunday"]
```

> Note: Same with the number, boolean, etc *Value Type*, just think of string being replaced with the *Value Type*. Now you can add a array of whateva you defined the *Value Type* to be.


second....


Here another way we can define a array *Value Type*.

Define a ```let``` variable as ```strArr``` and assign it to a *Value Type* ```Array``` and set array ```<>``` on the end of it.

Between these angle brackets we want to set our *Value Type*, let say string, but perhaps you didn't want a string, instead insert whatever *Value Type* as pleased.


### tuple

Ok, Since you know about the basic *Value Types* lets look at tuples, which is a array with a defined number of elements.

for example:

Define a ```let``` variable as ```strNumTuple``` and assign it to a *Value Type* ```string``` and ```number``` wrapped inside ```[]```.

```let strNumTuple: [string, number];```

So basically this array will have to match a string, followed by a number, thats it, if you add anything else.

Yup, you have a error.

It's the sequence of this array *Value Type* that allows you to add the data of the defined *Value Type*.

```Ruby
let strNumTuple: [string, number, number];      #// sequence  string, number, number

strNumTuple = ["Tech Savvy", 22, 23,];      #// following sequence 

console.log(strNumTuple)        #// logs array sequence values ["Tech Savvy", 22, 23,]

```
> Note: To put another value lets sat 24, there is a error, this will be invalid to our array sequence.


### Void, Undefined and Null

Here we create three variables again.

* Define a ```let``` variable with a "key" of ```myVoid``` hold a "Value Type" of ```void```.

* Define a ```let``` variable with a "key" of ```myNull``` hold a "Value Type" of ```null```.


* Define a ```let``` variable with a "key" of ```myUndefined``` hold a "Value Type" of ```undefined```.

Ok, now that we defined the variables *Value Type*, lets assign these variables to a value.

* assign ```myVoid``` to equal ```null```

* assign ```myNull``` to equal ```null```

* assign ```myUndefined``` to equal ```undefined```

Now, you may have noticed that ```myVoid``` takes a ```null``` *Value Type*, well that's currect, it can also take a undefined *Value Type*, as well as myNull and myUndefined can all share each other *Value Type* other then void.



