# TypeScript Functions

Lets create a new .ts file called functions. You may have to change you tsc to now compile the functions .ts file now.

So now stop the compiler and

```tsc functions.ts -w ```

Remeber ```tsc``` stands for TypeScript Compiler ```functions.ts``` is the folder that we're compiling and ```-w``` tell tsc to watch for changes in return it will automaically update.

Also you'll want to include functions.js into your html script.

Ok, so lets create a function that will take to numbers and add them.
Define a function named ```getSum``` with ```num1``` and ```num2``` as parameters.
We then want to ```return``` the parameters while adding them together.

Now let's log our getSum function and pass a parameter of ```1, 5```. 

```Ruby
function getSum(num1, num2) {
  return num1 + num2; #// add parameters
}

console.log(getSum(1, 5)) #// logs 1 + 5 as parameters = 6
```

You may have noticed that there isn't any error, and technially this is again plain old vanilla JavaScript, there's currently no TypeScritp going on.

So lets convert this into TypeScript.

Note that with we can insert a *Value Type* to the parameters as well as the function return *Value Type*.

Lets say  within a parameters ```num1``` has a *Value Type* of number, as well as ```num2``` *Value Type* is number, we can even become more strict by stating that the function itself, rght befor the block strts ```:number```.
```Ruby
function getSum(num1:number, num2:number):number {
  return num1 + num2;           #// retuen paramenters
}

console.log(getSum(1, 5))       #// giving paramenters values of 1 + 5
```

Yea, i'll say that's pretty clean code, so clean if you tried to insert a string into the log, parameters or even the return function you'll get a error.


Lets edit this function or feel free to copy paste, But what we'll like to do is create a ```let``` variable and set it eqiual to the function we just created.

Set the parameters *Value Type* to ```any``` rather then ```number```, this will allow us to log a string, but still we'll want to return a function *Value Type* ```number```, such a ```"3" + 2``` still adds to 5 not 32 nor do we get a error.

```Ruby
function getSum(num1:any, num2:any):number {
  return num1 + num2; 
}

console.log(getSum(1, 5))
```

This is how we make that happen.

Within the function block, we need to check ```if``` the function parameter ```num1``` is equal to a type of string, and if so, we need to parse it as a number/ interger.

Which is done by setting num1 equal to parseInt(), whitch is a function itself as we also place num1 inside its curly braces, that'll parse a string as a number.

Also copy and paste so that we're not just checking if num1 is a string, but also num2.

```Ruby
function getSum(num1:any, num2:any):number { #// return type number
  if(typeof num1 === 'string') { #// if type num1 is string
    num1 = parseInt(num1)       #// turn string to interger
  }
  if(typeof num2 === 'string') { #// if type num2 is string
    num2 = parseInt(num2)       #// turn string to interger
  }
  return num1 + num2;           #// then return type number
}

console.log(getSum("5", 5))     #// logs 5 + 5 as parameter
```


So lets go over this, although you may get it, there is a few key pointers here.

So first we had a number, all was needed to do was add them parameters together and log it.

But then perhaps we was dealing with a string number, yea looks like we ran into some issues here.

To solve these issues, we reassigned the parameters to any, meaning any *Value Type*, then we say within the function block we used typeof, which means the type of *Value Type*.

We then checked if typeof the parameter wes equal to *Value Type* string and if so, lets turn it to a number to that we can meet the function *Value Type* that's also set to number.

This function now accepts string and numbers.




Lets create another function after you've commented out the console.log.

We're going to name this function ```getName``` with a parameter of ```firstName``` and ```lastName```, then set there *Value Type* to ```string``` as well with the function return.

Using template literals return both parameters, then at last we can log the function with first and last name into the parameters.

```Ruby
function getName(firstName:string, lastName:string):string { #// assigns parameters
  return `${firstName} ${lastName}` #// return parameters
}

console.log(getName('Tech', 'Savvy')) #// logs defined parameters Tech Savvy
```

Now we can also make our ```lastName``` parameter optional by inserting a ```?``` exactly at the end of it.

Yet even if we dont specify ```lastName```, we'll still get a undefined as ```lastName``` is still being returned. So let check if ```lastName``` is ```undefined``` and if so just return ```firstName```.

```Ruby
function getName(firstName:string, lastName?:string):string {
  if(lastName === undefined) {  #// if lastName is undefined
    return `${firstName}`       #// just return firstName
  } else {
      return `${firstName} ${lastName}` #// else return but paramenters
  }
}

console.log(getName('Tech')) #// logs Tech 
```