> Note: If you haven't been following along, well pretty much remember as we create a new folder you'll need to update it to your html also your tsc.

# Classes

Now lets create a ```classes``` .ts file, and insert ```class``` called ```User```. 

Classes can have properties which is basically just a "key": "value" pair and then you have methods that which are just functions inside the class.

Lets give this class a property of ```name``` whitch has to be a ```string```, ``email`` whitch has to be a ```string```, and age whitch has to be a ```number```.

Those are the property of our User.

Now inside a class, you have something that is called a ```constructor``` this is a speical kind of method, that runs when you instantiate something with its class.

For example when you create a user this is going to run, and what we want to do is create a user and pass in its preperties to the ```constructor``` method is going to take the parameters of our ```User``` properties.


I know sounds kind difficult, we lets jst continue and you'll catch it right out of mid air.

So our construtor prarmeter will hold the same properties as our ```User``` class.

What we're going to do is assign these parameters to our user class.

Define ```this.name``` within the constructor block.

> When we use this. it pertains to its parent of name, such as the ```User``` class and set it to equal to ```name``` which is being passed in.

Same thing with ```email``` and ```age```, use ```this``` then set it equal to the parent in which we are referring to.

Lets also in this constructor block log a template literal string that says "User created" and assign this name.

```Ruby
constructor(name: string, email: string, age: number) { #// passing properties as parameters
        this.name = name;       #// this name is passed to is parent
        this.email = email;     #// this email is passed to is parent
        this.age = age;         #// this age is passed to is parent

        console.log(`User Created: ${this.name}`) #// logs object of user being created
    }
```

Now that's a class we just created, now what we'll want to do is create a user object.

So lets create a ```let``` variable named ```Savvy``` and we then equal savvy to a ```new``` ```User``` instants, which is the class we created, this instants takes a parameter of the constructors property as data, in which now we can assign store data and not the properties.

for example the new user method should store within its cury brackets lets say ```"Tech Savvy"``` we have now stored this as property ```this.name``` and this name is in a constructor which is then ran and instantiates its data to the class user.

We now have two more properties to fill in order to create our user object ```email``` and ```age```.

So lets also pass in an email address and a our age.

There we created a new user. 

```Ruby
let admin = new User("Tech Savvy", "tooensure@gmail.com", 22); #// object of user being created
```

> We have a class with our static typing, somthing you definitely can't do with regular JavaScript. Although with ES6 the new standard you can do classes but you can't do do the staic typing.

Now perhaps we wanted to get our age, well all we'll have yo do is log our object then access the data we'll like to collect from it, which is age.
```consol.log(admin.age); #// returns object data```


### Access Modifier

So we can ake it so our user properties can't be accessed outside the class by inserting modifiers infront of our ```User``` property "keys".

| Access Modifiers | Description |
| :---: | :--- |
| private | can't be accessed outside class |
| public | accessable to the public |
| protected | can only access from inheriated class |

So lets say we inserted private into each user property, you'll see that we get a error, we can no longer access this property data outside class.

```Property 'age' is private and only accessible within class 'User'```

So yea we can't do this, lets say we changed age access modifier to public then yes as befor it works.

We also have protected which means we can access it from outside the class, but we can access it from any class that inherit the current user class.

#### Methods

Clear our access modifiers and where we log age to console.

Perhaps You wanted to create a method inside the user class call ```register```, all we'll want is to do is log ```this``` ```name``` "is now registered".

Now we can call our object with the registered method.
```Ruby
export class User {
  name: string;
  email: string;
  age: number;

  constructor(name: string, email: string, age: number) {
      this.name = name;
      this.email = email;
      this.age = age;

      console.log(`User Created: ${this.name}`)
  }   
  register() {
    console.log(`${this.name} is now registered`)  #// user is being created throw register method
}
}

let admin = new User("Tech Savvy", "tooensure@gmail.com", 22);  #//storing data as user

admin.register()          #// calling registere method on stored data user
```

> Note: we can also make our register mothod private, by assigning a access modifiers of private. So we woulsd onlu be able to call register from within a class.

#### Class Inheritance

Let comment out our object. and clear our register object call from above, (keep the register method inside user class tho ).

So lets create a class called ```Member``` that ```intends``` the ```User``` class. Now this is how we inherit from our ```User``` class, that i'll assign a ```id``` which will be a ```number``` in relation to a memeber ID.

Don't for get we need a constructor which we want to pass the Member class properties and also the class properties in which it's inherit  into the parameter.

In this case we have a ```id``` that takes a ```number``` ,then, in the user class we have ```name``` as a ```string```, ```email``` as a ```string``` and so forth.

Now we also will need to define a ```super``` method that holds the inherited "key" properties without its "values".

Also set ```this``` ```id``` to equal ```id``` which will be passed to parent.


```Ruby
class Memeber extends User {
  id: number;

  constructor(id: number, name: string, email: string, age: number) {
    super(name, email, age);        #// obtain types from inharited class User
    this.id = id;       #// all members assigned a id
  }
}
```
> Note: We don't need to define ```User``` properties because we used the super and passed the properties there, which went to the user class and obtained them for us. 

Now let say our ```Member``` needs a some sort a payment set up to allow us to know they paid a invoice well.

Lets create a method inside our ```Member``` class called ```payInvoice```, we can then say ```super```, call the ```payInvoice``` method along side.

```Ruby
payInvoice() {      #// creating a payment method
    super.payInvoice();     #// method should take parent properties
  }         #// end method
}
```

Now call this ```payInvoice``` method in the ```User``` class in which using template literal that logs ```this``` ```name``` has paid invioce.

> in *Member class*
  payInvoice() {
    super.payInvoice();
  }

> in *User class*
```Ruby
  payInvoice() {
    console.log(`${this.name} has paid invoce`)
  }
```

Now bare with me here, all we need is a object.

Create a ```let``` variable ```admin```, and give the admin a *Value Type* of ```User```.

We'll now store admin data of ``new`` ```Member``` in which we're going to fill its properties with those of the ```Memeber``` then the ```User``` .


> Note: You'll get user created whatever you assigned the name because they are a user, obvisouly this is posible through inheritance, Yet they will also be a member so we can call pay invoice method upon the object we created.

```Ruby
export class User {
  name: string;
  email: string;
  age: number;

  constructor(name: string, email: string, age: number) {
      this.name = name;
      this.email = email;
      this.age = age;

      console.log(`User Created: ${this.name}`)
  }   
  register() {
    console.log(`${this.name} is now registered`)
  }

  payInvoice() {
    console.log(`${this.name} has paid invoce`)
  }
}

class Memeber extends User {
  id: number;

  constructor(id: number, name: string, email: string, age: number) {
    super(name, email, age)
  }

  payInvoice() {
    super.payInvoice();
  }
}

let admin: User = new Memeber(1, "Tech Savvy", "tooensure@gmil.com", 22)    #// create user member object

admin.payInvoice();     #// call invoice method
```

